ety would be horrified if we found a litter of kittens or pups in the river in this condition. This is a child
“He asked me and my husband if we would look after his kids seeing that he lived with us for so long when he was younger, and he said he knew the kids would have a good home and food to eat all the time.”
Favel said the last time she saw Tina was July 1, when she took her to Winnipeg to visit her biological mother. Tina had run away a few times starting last summer.
“She ran away twice and then she sort of settled down and she went back to school and she was doing so good,” Favel said, sobbing.
Favel said Tina called her sister Sarah about a week and a half ago.
“The last time her sister heard from her, she told her, ‘Tell mama and papa I love them, I miss them, but I’m not ready to go home yet.”
No arrests have been made, O’Donovan said. Investigators are calling on anyone who saw Fontaine in the last 10 days, or who knows what happened to her, to contact police.
Fontaine, who had just turned 15, had a history of running away, but O’Donovan said police knew roughly where she went each time she was previously reported missing.
Police aren’t saying how Fontaine died or whether she was sexually assaulted, but O’Donovan said she was already dead by the time her body was dumped in the river.
“The autopsy has been conducted and it’s obvious that this child didn’t put herself in the river in that condition,” he said. “It’s something that we’re going to hold back on and we’re not going to get into exactly how this girl died.”
There are only a handful of people who know how Fontaine died, including those responsible for her death, he said.
Somebody may have seen her. We would like to talk to anybody who has seen her
“She’s definitely been exploited and taken advantage of, murdered and put into the river in this condition,” O’Donovan said. “Somebody may have seen her. We would like to talk to anybody who has seen her.”
Last week, Manitoba unveiled a monument to almost 1,200 missing and murdered aboriginal women. The two-metre-high granite statue stands just by the junction of the Red and Assiniboine rivers in downtown Winnipeg.
In May, the RCMP issued a detailed statistical breakdown of 1,181 cases since 1980. The report said aboriginal women make up 4.3 per cent of the Canadian population, yet account for 16 per cent of female homicides and 11.3 per cent of missing women.
Also on Sunday, the body of a man was pulled from the river near a north-end park. That man has not been publicly identified, but police say the death is not suspicious.
A Halifax man accuses Air Canada of repeatedly subjecting him to enhanced security procedures because he is black and Muslim, in a case that highlights the dangers to civil liberties posed by the controversial “no fly list.”
Before any hearing, the Canadian Human Rights Tribunal has ordered the airline to confirm whether it trains staff to consider human rights and cultural sensitivity in its security procedures. Air Canada had resisted such disclosure on the grounds the procedures are governed by law.
Tribunal member David Thomas also ordered the complainant, Mohamed Yaffa, to disclose his medical records and human resources file because he claims to have suffered health and employment problems after being subjected to extra questioning six times before boarding Air Canada flights.
Mr. Yaffa is the diversity and inclusion coordinator at Capital Health, which operates hospitals and clinics in and around Halifax, and travels frequently as part of his job.
He spoke in an interview of the humiliation he felt at being repeatedly singled out for “excessive scrutiny,” having to endure passengers’ suspicious looks once on board.
He has never been denied boarding or told specifically his name is on the no fly list. He said he was told the issue was over his name.
“It was very humiliating,” he said. “It takes over your mind … You don’t know your crime.”
The first alleged incident was in March 2010; five others happened at airports mostly in Canada, but at overseas airports he declined to identify.
Mr. Yaffa said he did not know the reason for the extra questioning, but it focused on his identity and the frequency of his travel, and seemed to be motivated by his appearance as a black Muslim man.
“Being called Mohamed had something to do with it,” he said.
